---
title: Best Practice Default Meta
description: The default meta tags Nuxt SEO sets for you.
---

## Introduction

To ensure your site is SEO friendly, Nuxt SEO sets some default meta tags for you based
on your [site config](/docs/nuxt-seo/guides/configuring-modules).

## Canonical URL

Ensuring a canonical URL is set helps avoid [duplicate content issues](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/66359?hl=en).

This can be an issue when you have multiple domains or subdomains pointing to the same content,
[trailing slashes](/docs/nuxt-seo/guides/trailing-slashes) and non-trailing slashes showing the same content
and when you have query parameters that don't change the content.

Learn more about canonical URLs with the [Canonical Link Tag](/learn/controlling-crawlers/canonical-urls) guide.

The canonical URL is generated from your site config `url`, the current route and the `canonicalQueryWhitelist`.

### canonicalQueryWhitelist

By default, the `canonicalQueryWhitelist` includes a number of common query parameters that will modify the page content:

- `page`
- `sort`
- `filter`
- `search`
- `q`
- `query`

You can override this by providing your own list of query parameters that should be included in the canonical URL.

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  seo: {
    canonicalQueryWhitelist: ['myCustomQuery']
  }
})
```

## I18n

Google wants you to list the language that any given page is written in as `<html lang="<locale>">`.

Nuxt SEO will set this for you based on your site config `currentLocale` and `defaultLocale` (default `en`).

If you're using the `@nuxtjs/i18n` module, then this is automatically set for you.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle"}
See the [I18n Guide](/docs/nuxt-seo/guides/i18n) for detailed information on configuring locales, especially if you're experiencing issues with the `lang` attribute.
::

## Open Graph

Providing extra [open-graph](https://ogp.me/) meta tags helps social media platforms understand your content better.

The following tags are set:

- `og:url` - The canonical URL of the page.
- `og:locale` - The current locale of the page based on site config `currentLocale` and `defaultLocale`.
- `og:site_name` - The name of your site based on site config `name`.

## Disable Default Meta

While all default meta is registered with low priority, allowing you to easily override them,
you may want to disable them entirely.

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  seo: {
    automaticDefaults: false
  }
})
```
