---
title: 'Nuxt SEO Utils'
description: 'SEO utilities to improve your Nuxt sites discoverability and shareability.'
navigation:
  title: 'Introduction'
---

## Why use Nuxt SEO Utils?

Nuxt SEO Utils is a collection of defaults and utilities to improve your Nuxt site's discoverability and shareability.

While there are several features covering many aspects of SEO, it covers important defaults such as [automatic canonical URLs](https://nuxtseo.com/learn/controlling-crawlers/canonical-urls) and
[open graph tags](https://nuxtseo.com/learn/mastering-meta/open-graph).

## Features

### Default Canonical URLs

Automatically generate canonical URLs for all pages.

- Whitelisted query params with `canonicalQueryParams`
- Lowercase URLs with respected trailing slash config

### Metadata Files

Inspired by [Next.js Metadata Files](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata), this allows you to configure your head tags using metadata files.

- [Icons](/docs/seo-utils/guides/app-icons) and [Open Graph Images](/docs/seo-utils/guides/open-graph-images)

### :icon{name="i-noto-bread"} Breadcrumb composable

- Easily generate site-wide breadcrumb using the [`useBreadcrumbItems()`{lang="ts"}](/docs/nuxt-seo/api/breadcrumbs) composable (test).
- Integrates with Nuxt I18n and Nuxt Schema.org
- Plugs directly into [Nuxt UI Breadcrumb](https://ui.nuxt.com/navigation/breadcrumb)

### ✨ SEO meta in nuxt.config and route rules

Enjoy the DX of `useSeoMeta` in your nuxt.config and route rules

- [Nuxt Config SEO Meta](/docs/seo-utils/guides/nuxt-config-seo-meta)
- [Route Rules SEO Meta](/docs/seo-utils/guides/route-rules)

### 🤖 Automatic OG Meta Tags

Never worry about setting `og:title` and `og:description` again.

This uses the [Infer SEO Meta](https://unhead.unjs.io/plugins/plugins/infer-seo-meta-tags) Unhead plugin.

### 🧙 Validate and fix broken tags

Automatically fix broken tags, for example will ensure `og:image` is an absolute URL.

### ⚡ Extra head optimizations

Reduce your page weight by treeshaking `useSeoMeta` and implementing other optimizations.

- [Treeshake Plugin](https://unhead.unjs.io/plugins/plugins/vite-plugin)
- [Capo.js](https://unhead.unjs.io/plugins/plugins/capo)

### :icon{name="i-noto-mage"} Best Practice Default Meta

- Canonical URLs will be automatically generated for all pages.
- Description and open-graph meta tags will be set for you. See [Default Meta](/docs/nuxt-seo/guides/default-meta) for more information.

### :icon{name="i-noto-sparkle"} Enhanced Titles

- Ensures that every page has a title by generating one from the last slug segment.
  See the [Fallback Title](/docs/nuxt-seo/guides/fallback-title) guide for more information.
- Sets a default title template for you with your [site name](/docs/site-config/guides/setting-site-config).
